[5.11] SCIM2 guides (#2859)
wso2/docs-is: en/docs/develop/scim2-patch-operations.md

        "value": {
            "givenName": "John",
            "familyName": "John"
        }
    },
    ```

    In the second method, you need two separate operations to add the sub-attributes as shown below.

    ```json
    {
        "op": "add",
        "path": "name.givenName",
        "value": "John"
    },
    {
        "op": "add",
        "path": "name.familyName",
        "value": "Doe"
    }
    ```

-   **Example 3:** Add the `manager` attribute in the **Enterprise** user schema (without using the path param):

    ```json
    {
        "op": "add",
        "value": {
            "urn:ietf:params:scim:schemas:extension:enterprise:2.0:User": {
                "manager": {
                    "displayName": "Manager1",
                    "value": "Joe"
                }
            }
        }
    }
    ```

-   **Example 4:** Add the `manager` attribute in the **Enterprise** user schema (using the path param):

    ```json
        {
        "op": "add",
        "path": "urn:ietf:params:scim:schemas:extension:enterprise:2.0:User:manager",
        "value": {
            "displayName": "Manager2"
        }
    }
    ```

**Simple multi-valued attributes**

> Attributes of this type are not found in the core schemas of the SCIM specification. However, you can add simple multi-valued attributes to custom schemas as shown below. 

Reviewer: Changing all these to enterprise user schema because in 5.11.0 scim claim extensibility was supported via enterprise user schema

        "op": "replace",
        "path": "name",
        "value": {
            "givenName": "Martin",
            "familyName": "Freeman"
        }
    },
    {
        "op": "replace",
        "path": "name.familyName",
        "value": "Jackson"
    }
    ```

-   **Example 3:** Replace the `manager` attribute in the **Enterprise** user schema (without using the path param):

    ```json
    {
        "op": "replace",
        "value": {
            "urn:ietf:params:scim:schemas:extension:enterprise:2.0:User": {
                "manager": {
                    "displayName": "Manager3",
                    "value": "Tom"
                }
            }
        }
    }
    ```

-   **Example 4:** Replace the `manager` attribute in the **Enterprise** user schema (using the path param):

    ```json
    {
        "op": "replace",
        "path": "urn:ietf:params:scim:schemas:extension:enterprise:2.0:User:manager",
        "value": {
            "displayName": "Manager4"
        }
    },
    {
        "op": "replace",
        "path": "urn:ietf:params:scim:schemas:extension:enterprise:2.0:User:manager.value",
        "value": "Jem"
    }
    ```

**Simple multi-valued attributes**

> This type of attribute is not found in the core schemas of the SCIM specification. However, there is a capability to add simple multi-valued attributes to our extended schemas (custom schemas). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This type of attribute is not found in the core schemas of the SCIM specification. However, there is a capability to add simple multi-valued attributes to our extended schemas. 
```

> Let's consider a custom schema with an attribute called devices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's consider the Enterprise schema with an attribute called devices.
```

> -   **Example 1:** Replace the `devices` attribue in a **Custom** user schema (without using the path param):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   **Example 1:** Replace the `devices` attribute in the **Enterprise** user schema (without using the path param):
```

    ```json
    {
        "op": "replace",
        "value": {

>             "urn:scim:wso2:schema": {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            "urn:ietf:params:scim:schemas:extension:enterprise:2.0:User": {
```

                "devices": ["M1", "M2"]
            }
        }
    }
    ```

> -   **Example 2:** Replace the `devices` attribue in a **custom** user schema (using the path param):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   **Example 2:** Replace the `devices` attribute in the **Enterprise** user schema (using the path param):
```

    ```json
    {
        "op": "replace",

>         "path": "urn:scim:wso2:schema:devices",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        "path": "urn:ietf:params:scim:schemas:extension:enterprise:2.0:User:devices",
```

    -   There is a special case for the `name` attribute. Even though `“path”: “name”` is specified, the `familyName` attribute is not removed. This is only applicable when an LDAP user store is used.
    -   If you just want to delete a sub-attribute of a complex attribute, use the `attribute.subattribute` format as shown below.

-   **Example 1:** Remove a sub-attribute of the `name` attribute in the **Core** user schema:

    ```json
    {
        "op": "remove",
        "path": "name.givenName"
    }
    ```

-   **Example 2:** Remove the manager's `value` attribute and whole `manager` object in the **Enterprise** user schema:

    ```json
    {
        "op": "remove",
        "path": "urn:ietf:params:scim:schemas:extension:enterprise:2.0:User:manager.value"
    },
    {
        "op": "remove",
        "path": "urn:ietf:params:scim:schemas:extension:enterprise:2.0:User:manager"
    }
    ```

**Simple multi-valued attributes**

This type of attribute is not found in the core schemas of the SCIM specification. However, there is a capability to add simple multi-valued attributes to our extended schemas (custom schemas). 

> Let's consider a custom schema with an attribute called devices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's consider the Enterprise schema with an attribute called devices.
```

-   **Example 1:** Specify the member (by user ID) who needs to be removed.

    ```json
    {
        "op": "remove",
        "path": "members[value eq 0565f472-28fe-4d93-83ad-096c66ed4a47]"
    }
    ```

-   **Example 2:** Specify the member (by username) who needs to be removed.

    ```json
    {
        "op": "remove",
        "path": "members[display eq alex]"
    }
    ```

### Rename user group

Let's create a patch request payload to rename an existing user group.

-   **Example 1:** Rename a user group (without using the path param):

    ```json
    {
        "op": "replace",
        "value": {
            "displayName": "new_group_name"
        }
    }
    ```

-   **Example 1:** Rename a user group (using the path param):

    ```json
    {
        "op": "replace",
        "path": "displayName",
        "value": "new_group_name"
    }
    ```

## Patch user roles

You can use the patch operations to add/remove/replace users and user groups for a role.

### Assign users

Let's create patch request payloads to `add` users to a user role.

-   **Example 1:** Assign users to a role (without using the path param):

    ```json  

>     {
>            "op": "add",
>            "value": {
>                "users": [
>                    {
>                        "display": "alex",
>                        "value": "0565f472-28fe-4d93-83ad-096c66ed4a47"
>                    }
>                ]
>            }
>        }
> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    {
        "op": "add",
        "value": {
            "users": [
                {
                    "display": "alex",
                    "value": "0565f472-28fe-4d93-83ad-096c66ed4a47"
                }
            ]
        }
    }
```

    ```

-   **Example 2:** Assign users to a role (using the path param):

    ```json

>     {
>         "op": "add",
>         "path": "users",
>         "value": [
>                     {
>                       "display": "alex",
>                       "value": "0565f472-28fe-4d93-83ad-096c66ed4a47"
>                     }
>             ]
>     }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    {
        "op": "add",
        "path": "users",
        "value": [
            {
                "display": "alex",
                "value": "0565f472-28fe-4d93-83ad-096c66ed4a47"
            }
        ]
    }
```

    ```

### Replace users

Let's create patch request payloads to `replace` users assigned to a user role.

-   **Example 1:** Replace users in a role (without using the path param):

    ```json
    {
        "op": "replace",
        "value": {
            "users": [
                {
                    "display": "alex",
                    "value": "0565f472-28fe-4d93-83ad-096c66ed4a47"
                }
            ]
        }
    }
    ```

-   **Example 2:** Replace users in a role (using the path param):

    ```json

>     {
>         "op": "replace",
>         "path": "users",
>         "value": [
>                     {
>                       "display": "alex",
>                       "value": "0565f472-28fe-4d93-83ad-096c66ed4a47"
>                 }
>             ]
>     }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    {
        "op": "replace",
        "path": "users",
        "value": [
            {
                "display": "alex",
                "value": "0565f472-28fe-4d93-83ad-096c66ed4a47"
            }
        ]
    }
```

    ```

### Remove users

Let's create patch request payloads to `remove` users from a user role.

-   **Example 1:** Specify the user (by user ID) who needs to be removed.

    ```json
    {
        "op": "remove",
        "path": "users[value eq 0565f472-28fe-4d93-83ad-096c66ed4a47]"
    }
    ```

-   **Example 2:** Specify the user (by username) who needs to be removed.

    ```json
    {
        "op": "remove",
        "path": "members[users eq alex]"
    }
    ```

### Assign user groups

Let's create patch request payloads to `add` user groups to a user role.

-   **Example 1:** Assign user groups to a role (without using the path param):

    ```json  
    {
        "op": "add",
        "value": {
            "groups": [
                {
                    "value": "78144fd9-48e7-4fc9-95b5-cd3883f5ce4a"
                }
            ]
        }
    }
    ```

-   **Example 2:** Assign user groups to a role (using the path param):

    ```json

>     {
>         "op": "add",
>         "path": "groups",
>         "value": [
>                     {
>                       "value": "78144fd9-48e7-4fc9-95b5-cd3883f5ce4a"
>                     }
>                  ]
>     }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    {
        "op": "add",
        "path": "groups",
        "value": [
            {
                "value": "78144fd9-48e7-4fc9-95b5-cd3883f5ce4a"
            }
        ]
    }
```

    ```

### Replace user groups

Let's create patch request payloads to `replace` user groups assigned to a user role.

-   **Example 1:** Replace user groups in a role (without using the path param):

    ```json
    {
        "op": "replace",
        "value": {
            "groups": [
                {
                    "value": "78144fd9-48e7-4fc9-95b5-cd3883f5ce4a"
                }
            ]
        }
    }
    ```

-   **Example 2:** Replace user groups in a role (using the path param):

    ```json
    {
        "op": "replace",
        "path": "groups",
        "value": [
                    {
                      "value": "78144fd9-48e7-4fc9-95b5-cd3883f5ce4a"
                    }

>                  ]

Reviewer: formatting issue

>     {
>         "op": "replace",
>         "path": "groups",
>         "value": [
>                     {
>                       "value": "78144fd9-48e7-4fc9-95b5-cd3883f5ce4a"
>                     }
>                  ]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      {
          "op": "replace",
          "path": "groups",
          "value": [
              {
                  "value": "78144fd9-48e7-4fc9-95b5-cd3883f5ce4a"
              }
          ]
      }
```
